---
layout: post
title: "My Life of Games"
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

My first console my dad's Sega Genesis. My brother and I used to play Double Dragon, and to this day I can remember beating it and saving the princess. 
 
 Since then I've played a ton of games, like much of the gamer crowd, except I was much more interested in strategy games than average. I used to play the Pokemon Trading Card game and beat up on older kids with my infamous "Water Deck".  
The Modding Era
================

The Dude's Guild
================

In 2006, at the age of 13, I was accepted into The Dude's Guild, perhaps the most popular map-making clan on Battle.net. Naturally, at that age, I was a bit of a noob, and nearly got kicked out for arguing (presumably, indefensible points) with the guys who ran things.

Overtime though, I got better, both personally and technically, eventually being promoted to the rank of Raider. Under the pseudo-name of TopWolf, I released a multitude of maps-- none ever get popular -- but many had interesting mechanics even if they often had a fatal flaw.

* Advanced Wars - I had meant to call this "Advance Wars", as it was inspired by the GBA game of the same name, but I guess I just didn't look closely. In any case, the game was an attempt to make a better version of the existing "Tech Wars", a rather dull game where players built factories which produced unorderable units non-stop and directed them to attack-move toward the enemy base. The game had some neatures features in it, namely:
  * The ability to select a Commanding Officer with unique passive strengths and two game-changing abilities.
  * Something like 20 units.
  * Meaningful terrain, which affected the speed and defense of units passing through.
  * Overall it had some pretty big flaws, namely, the lack of dynamic gameplay (which is to say, it often devolved into meaningless decision between building X or Y factory) and many of the features I added never did anything to address them.
* Advanced Battle - A response to the flaws in Advanced Wars, Advanced Battle attempteed to correct the meaningless decisions by removing base-building entirely and resorting to tactically commanding a small group of units with your allies. The goal of the game was pretty simple: Reduce the enemy score to 0, by capturing control points which stole points from the opponent. Things got a little more interesting though when a friend suggested making control points steal more points the longer a team held onto it. By varying the speeds at which control points changed their value, I was able to create some emergement gameplay where players would have to choose between sabotaging well-defended control-points with lots of defenders versus repeatedly piercing the less defensible control points and hoping to slow the enemy down. In one version of the game, in addition to the above, each team had a truck filled with explosives, that, if successfully escorted to the enemy base, would steal a large sum of points from the enemy. Overall, the game never could hold anyone's interest for more than a few games-- while the high-level mechanics described above were interesting, combat was incredibly dull as each unit was effectively a clone of the others, and any strengths and weaknesses that distinguished them were hard-coded to form a giant rock-paper-scissors. Overall though, I'm pretty proud of it.
* Polaris - Inspired by a map of the same name created by a friend, Polaris is like any other RTS except for one important mechanic-- if a unit was not close enough to a source of warmth, it would slowly freeze to death. Unlike the other games I made which had a clear objective, Polaris was more about just being the last one to survive. I was more interested in creating an aesthetic experience of hopelessness. Snow fell endlessly, units often fell to any icy grave, fuel was extremely limited, and every other player was building an army that could sabotage your fuel lines at any time. On the bright side, players could build space heaters to heat things up and bridging towers to move fuel around, and even train Horses to keep units heated as they moved through the snow-covered plains. Overall though, the hopeless prevailed, and one experience was enough for players never to want to play again.
* Expansion - Expansion is a simple enough game. The game is played by four players, each of which has access to exactly one builder. Using the builder, players can construct turrets, each of which cost nothing and build near instantaneously. Turrets are used to kill monsters, 100 of which have been placed randomly around the map. Whenever a monster is killed, the owner of the killing units earns two points, and a new monster is placed at a random location. Turrets also kill monsters in exactly one attack. (Expansion took first prize in Clan MMU's 2-Hour Mapping Contest (9/6/2008) with theme "Expansion".)
* Magic - Magic was largely inspired by Magic: The Gathering and WarCraft games like Card Shuffle, but I set out to distinguish things by allowing the spellcasters to move around in an arena, with hopes to add an element of positioning to the mix. Basically though, players build a deck, challenge other players, and then summon monsters and cast spells in an attempt to defeat the other. The game never really got out of an alpha prototype, was some fun was had.
* Racer - Inspired by Blizzard's Azeroth Grand Prix, Racer was an attempt to make a decent racing game. Instead of using the arrow keys (which were prone to lag) like AGP, to control the car in Racer, players gave their driver an order and the driver would drive toward it. This made for extremely smooth drifting. Unfortunately, I didn't really understand physics at the time, so things turned out really badly, but Strilanc, a friend of mine, picked up the idea and made a really wonderful game out of it (pretty much exactly as I had envisioned it), arguably one of the most impressive games I've ever played.
* Pinnacle - Pinnacle was a series of increasingly difficult tactical challenges. Players were given a handful of units and had to figure out how to defeat a larger enemy force controlled by the AI. Unfortunately, I was never good at making puzzle games, so this turned out to be trouble-some when it came to tuning the difficulty.
* Battalion - Another spinoff of Advance Wars, Battalion was much like Advanced Battle, except "done right". Didn't really spend too much time with this before starting my next project.
* Naval Commander - "Inspired by Dreamspike's Space War Commander, Naval Commander bring combines simple control and complex strategy together to make a truly interesting strategic experience. Using gold, players buy warships which can be used to combat the enemy and eventually destroy the shipyard. Players can also use ships in order to take control of islands scattered throughout the map, which periodically grant gold and repair friendly ships. Players can also earn gold through trade with the special Freighter ships or scavenge the remains of enemies with a Scavenger. Each warships is unique, possessing a distinct speed and combat strength. Destroy the opponent's shipyard to win." Naval commander, unlike most of my other games, actually worked. It successfully exploited the complexity naturally brough about by fighting for control point in a 2-dimensional plane played in real time-- namely, flanking. The entire game revolved around one idea- getting the most firepower at the right spot at the right time. Players continuously maneuvered their ships attemping to attack one enemy ship with two while simulatenously pushing toward strategic points. Some important points:
  * I was able to solve the "group problem", where large groups of units tend toward the average, by making the weapon range of all units the same, which means that groups can always effectively be flanked, so grouping is of little advantage.
  * There were few ship types and they were both visually and tactically distinct. This solves the problem of players, again, reading groups as an average, and instead actually being able to decompose the actual strength of the group.
  * I also learned that the control points should take full advantage of all of the space in the map. This also makes it difficult for groups to form.

